MrBash — Today at 7:40 PM
I only finished the first 10 levels of @rockerguy29 's level pack, and I thought most of them were very well designed, especially after level 6.

I mean, everyone has a different taste in terms of level design and difficulty... linear vs exploration... difficult vs normal... gimmicky vs using different mechanics... kaizo vs leeway (although giving leeway is preferred by the majority of players)... I think it is all up to the player; what they prefer to play!

But for level designers, through my trial-and error of making levels and listening to feedback, I came up with some principles for myself to follow while making future levels:
🟢 Challenges must be visible, or at least visible for some time before they disappear.
🟢 Secrets are alright, as long as the concept of the secret or a hint relating to it has been given beforehand.
🟢 There should be at least a challenge in the level requiring skills and/or thinking outside the box, to make the level interesting and not boring.
🟢 Checkpoints should be placed cleverly, so the level doesn't become a chore.
🟢 Reward the player for completing challenges; with power ups, lives, collectibles, special effects or designs, etc.
🟢 Give the player very easy challenges between spread out actual tricky challenges, and make them travel some distance between challenges... This makes the player feel like they are PROGRESSING well (as a reward for completing a single challenging), also helps you save ideas for later and get more play time out of less ideas... i.e. a win-win solution!
🟢 It's better to give the player some leeway.
🟢 How to TRAVERSE a level should always be clear, obvious and NOT confusing... How to apply that to the level design differs depending on whether you're making an open-ended level or a linear level, but the player should be able to move around the level on their own without the developer's help.

Of course, the degree to which I can follow such principles will differ with experience over time.



https://www.youtube.com/@RayThompson777/videos
PJMixToo

next level idead
dark flame crates level





Fire
Grass
Water
Electric
Poison

Normal

Rock
Ghost
Ice
Ground
Dark

Fighting

Fairy
Bug
Flying
Steel
Psychic

Dragon

Red Gem Levels : Fire, Rock, Fairy
Green Gem Levels : Grass, Ghost, Bug
Blue Gem levels : Water, Ice, Flying
Yellow Gem Levels : Electric, Ground, Steel
Purple Gem Levels : Poison, Dark, Psychic
Boss levels : Normal, Fighting, Dragon

